and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show i'm your host
sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and if you haven't yet
check out our weekly email where we
share actual marketing tips useful
podcasts free guides resources and much
much more to start your week off with a
bang head over to business growth dot
email and with that said today's guest
is a returning one and a man who goes by
the name of mike winner mike's host over
at views on my own dot social the online
community to help you scale your
business and make you less [__] at sales
and marketing
mike welcome back to the show mate how
are you doing
really good mate how are you
well good on this end yeah yeah looking
looking forward to having you back
you're doing well aren't you i see your
youtube channel you've got some good
videos on there you deserve more views
if that is a matter appreciate that you
measure success by you put out some
really good stuff
most of you to say yeah i've really
struggled with youtube for some reason
the audio podcast does okay that
steadily grows
but for some reason i've you've you've
cracked it quite well i know your
youtube channel has done pretty well in
terms of the engagement views and such
but for some reason like we we really
struggle with the show and the views you
get
any idea why no
that i'd love to know why i'd love to
get someone in there could say look sam
if you tweet a b and c
this will this will kind of skyrocket
your your views but i'm yet to crash
it's interesting you talk about that's
one of the things i've been asked
recently about growing a youtube
audience now important it is for
business and yeah i've got uh paddy
galloway have you ever heard of him on
twitter i haven't actually
brilliant he works with someone like the
biggest creators
and he goes through
their account and he tells them you know
what they could do differently it's huge
so working with him paddy galloway or
um check him out
um weirdly he sent me a dm today on
twitter but yeah so check him out he
will be able to help you yeah yeah maybe
there's a couple of shirts that can help
me do that but yeah no it'd be a great
guess for you that'll be awesome yeah
perhaps we can get paddy on getting to
do a live audit of my channel and uh
just scrutinize it to hell awesome yeah
that'd be good very good
cool man so when we when we had you last
time we talked all about how you grew
your business how you scaled it the ups
and downs the tips i believe you sold
off in the end was eight million or
something like that yeah
eight million pound sale and that's when
uh
the trouble started
and since then a lot lots happened but
today we're gonna be focusing on
basically sharing tips around how how
our listeners are watchers can grow
their audience online
so first and foremost mike
what does growing audience online really
mean
well ideally what you want to do is to
have more of your ideal client following
your content and be part of that journey
where they're learning something from
you getting value from you but you want
them to you want to be front and center
on the social platforms they hang out so
you want more of the people you want to
do business with
to be
following you on social media channels
and if you can crack that
part by growing a substantial number of
people that are interested in what you
do and you solve a pain point that
they've got
and then marry that with
marketing to those people better in the
places that those people hang out
and then the final thing being able to
convert that traffic into cash which is
why we are
all doing this stuff
yeah then if you if you can marry those
three things and you're pretty
it's gonna be hard for you to [__] it up
really so that's
that's what it means to me it's growing
that audience of people that want to do
business with you
marketing those people better and then
being able to close or convert
those leads and that audience into
paying customers
makes sense and we'll break down these
topics in a bit
and is this something growing an
audience that any business can really do
or is it quite limited to like coaches
or consultants or people in tech
industries are there limits
uh no not really like any business can
grow an audience i would actually say
it's probably harder
if you're a blue chip company to grow an
audience
um
away from the brands but for a lot of
people
those sort of employee advocates if
you've not if you don't want to yourself
but also be in the md the founder the c
or whatever it might be like whatever
you want to call yourself
it's i think imperative for you
to be a visible
um identifiable recognizable face head
of a tribe head of a community um
that grows its own audience
um and especially if you're an employee
so i don't bang on about personal brand
or anything like that but that is key
uh now um i've seen someone that's done
a test recently
where they um
basically
instead of posting on their business
accounts online whether it be on twitter
on um
instagram or linkedin they split the
same content across five of their
employees
and um
there's 200 more engagement on the same
content when you use those people so
it's huge really and people prefer that
really that wasn't that yeah i can't
remember the name that um that white
label company
where they because i saw a company
without going off and too much of a
tangent i saw a i think they're like a
similar agency to us but they white
label basically digital marketing
services and i remember seeing as post
from his him and he basically said we're
going to take over linkedin this month
whatever that means and then um got all
of his employees to share the same post
and basically see how much reach they
could get with literally all their staff
on linkedin posting the same post is
that is that the one or was it someone
else
uh someone else someone else okay it
wasn't there but yeah so 200 increase
but yeah so
there you go so if you can build your
audience around that i think a lot of
people
um
build audiences that aren't going to
benefit them long term like or they
really confuse that or
they've got an um too many followers on
an account i'd say who's done it quite
well recently so
take leah turner as an example
she had an instagram account thousands
of followers on there but it was from
different parts and different times in
her life
so now when leah does uh linkedin
training that audience isn't really
following leah for that type of content
for the most part she might have had 10
000 followers that aren't following her
for linkedin tips or growing their
audience so
while she's got a big audience
that wasn't right for what she's um
selling so if you look what she's doing
she's actually started a fresh clean
linkedin sorry not linkedin account um
instagram account right like leah does
leaders linkedin and she's growing a new
engaged audience that wants the core
products and content to consume the
content that she's now producing so
she's
she's realized that a big audience
doesn't necessarily mean
um
the right audience if you want to make
money from it
interesting you you mentioned just now
something about short term and long term
with your audience growth
yeah tell us a bit more about what you
mean there
uh
well
so
short zone growth is just like getting
people that follow the back off
say one viral post or one viral treat
that's very short term that's
short-termism
that's probably
not really beneficial what you want to
do is build
doesn't necessarily build slowly but you
want to build somebody that is
interested in the bulk of your content
because you could do like a rogue
um tweet that
bangs it gains you 10 15 20 000 new
followers but if that's the only thing
that they followed you for
it's kind of irrelevant you almost want
to just have steady progression i think
build
the right type of audience that enjoy
the bulk of your content and would
benefit from the pain point that you
solve
yeah yeah so rather than just just
putting so here's an example i grew an
audience on
youtube nearly 90 000 follow me on there
still do i've not put any content out
there for eight months
that audience on there
probably enjoys
either being entertained possibly
learning something
they are probably not going to buy a
product if i suddenly launched a
broadband company let's just say or a
broadband offering and then i went to
that audience and said buy my broadband
audience buy my broadband product
i guarantee that 99.99
of those people aren't going to buy that
product so while i've built an audience
it is the wrong audience for what i want
it to do
so
essentially i've built an audience of
cynical people that think that online
training's a scam
they think that tai lopez is a bit of a
dick
and they're probably not going to
purchase
anything that i put out there that was
remotely like say training or
online learning or coaching or any of
these things so that's the wrong
audience for the wrong product so
building an audience to me is building a
good audience
like a small engaged
community
that uh will benefit from the products
that you sell
let's strip this back a bit so for
anyone tuning in that's thinking i want
to get stuck into this i want to build
up my own audience because this sounds
pretty pretty useful
what are some of the first things before
we start picking platforms and whatnot
what are some of the first things that
you should have in your mind that you
need crystal clear before you actually
get into any tactics or strategies in
terms of kind of this is the people that
i want to build in my audience and any
other initial thoughts
yeah so what problems you fix first of
all what problem do you fix
and then you'd look at so if that's the
problem i fix and that is the answer to
a question
what questions are people asking that i
want to be answering
so as soon as you can identify those
things then you can say right so what
type of person asks those questions or
what type of person
what specific type of person that asks
those questions do i want to work with
so it's
it's cliche basic stuff if any of this
stuff sounds confusing it's like you've
got
but it's like you've got to identify
your ideal client but then it's got to
be like what questions are your ideal
client asking all right what answers
have i got so as soon as you've got that
that's clear you can work back from that
and say right so where do these people
hang out
yeah and then build your communities on
those different places i've started from
scratch again on yep
so i've started uh completely brand new
on facebook this week never been on
facebook before look um started on
um facebook so i'm now going to build us
an engaged audience on that platform
from scratch
on twitter
um i never really used twitter i had set
up twitter in like 2018 never really
used it
um but now i'm following a process to
grow my twitter audience a step-by-step
process
recording it all seeing what worked what
didn't and then that's something i'm
sharing i will be sharing next month
with
uh the views on my own um community as
well so i'm doing this from scratch
i know people might say oh well but you
had an audience of 200 000 on youtube
and on linkedin
and but i spilt them from scratch but
i'm starting from scratch and i'm also
testing this with um some people's
accounts i haven't got any followers as
well to see if it's possible to do it if
you've not got
a sort of
catalogue of content like i've got
yeah so
i'll be able to report back with my
findings soon tell you what yeah worked
what didn't and
if it's yeah they're all worse than my
bigger communities that i built
interested to see it especially facebook
that'll be interesting to see how that
goes
um
for anyone that's
kind of
tuning into this and thinking well
there's a few problems that i think i
fix and there's a few people or kind of
personas that could be my target client
have you got any quick tips when it
comes to actually nailing down these are
the main problems we fixed these are the
main people that we serve i shouldn't
focus on anything else well think of one
thing first and just be known as that
guy and that's the anchor then like
there's
ev
so i don't know
probably a [__] example but nike
nike sell lots and lots of products but
they mark it to a different demographic
slightly differently so you've got the
uh they do runnings running stuff they
do football boots whatever so they do
slightly different marketing messages to
different audiences but still nike so
you can do that and if you're a business
and you've got different employees you
could be smart or or you could have
different people in your management team
almost like being the advocate or the
the voice for
that individual um part of the business
that you want them to be known for but i
would say always just just own one thing
really well and then you can upsell
things
and introduce other concepts and stuff
to your clients that have already
purchased from you because it's easier
to sell
to somebody that has already parted
money with you before that's an easier
sale
than trying to convince so if you're not
clear and up like straightforward and
easy to understand in your market
message it then gets convoluted so it's
difficult so you don't really want to
try and say well i do this but i also do
that i also do this i also do that it
makes it very difficult people are
simple
you've got this problem this is what you
need to fix it do you want it
fixing yes or no it's it's that simple
so that's what you need to do i would
say go and own one thing so when i did
it quite successfully with learning
heroes
it was saving the world from boring
e-learning we didn't just do e-learning
modules we did
reading materials we did animated
explainer videos we did lots of
different types of
learning content
however my tagline or the thing i was
known as was saving the world from
borneo learning boy
there are catchier names than that but
that is what you want to do now it is a
bit gimpy sometimes to be known as the
the x boy or the x girl whatever but
it works it works and it makes it very
easy for your audience to understand
then take that a step further then your
profile and your account
needs to
then tell people what to expect from you
so if you are building your audience
be clear on who it is that you want to
speak to what problem it is that you fix
you make content to get people to come
to your profiles essentially you put
that out and you hope that enough people
engage with it that then other people
like them
see that content it resonates with them
that might be the first time they've
discovered who you are so then they'll
click back onto your profile so that's
how come like your
are important
your profile so important and the other
content you've got on your
page and that's any any page on any of
your social media platforms is so
important
because now if that content now either
removes say um a sales objection i might
have so it removes an objection i might
have or it takes me further down a
buying process i become self-qualifying
and i almost answer my own objections
before i even get in touch so it then
makes it very easy to sell to
they've heard you they understand you
they like the cut your jib they like
what you're about
they trust you whatever it might be
you've given value that's how it works
and then
good just peeling that back
so
what you what you said makes sense so
basically rather than trying to pick a
bunch of problems pick a bunch of ideal
clients say look let's start with one
like you did in your past business
learning heroes start one crispy issue
that you know is going to resonate with
the people you want to sell to
so i actually i was listening to a um
podcast a guy called louis grenier i
think it is everybody hates marketers
and he talked about something called the
iceberg effect and it's basically like
when you often head head on to bad
websites homepage they're trying to sell
you everything and anyone like a a good
example in my industry is digital
marketing companies that say they do
everything under one roof but they'll do
your photography their videos your
influence and marketing your websites
your seo your paid ads and you're like
i'm so confused you're saying you do
everything but you've got like three
staff how the [__] are you going to
manage all this um and it's just like
just confusing you're losing
so
take it take it like i am productions is
very similar so we could do video
packages we could do brand videos we can
do animations we can do
monthly video packages a monthly
subscription and we had almost too many
products since stripping it right back
to saying we are the explainer guys if
you've got something that you need
explaining we can make an animated
explainer video to do that for you
literally by going
with one product we can still do all the
other stuff but now literally leading
with that one product has meant that
we now get a better quality of
conversation when we do speak to people
and it's easier to market that to people
so
it's you just want to really be known as
the one thing
yeah that's it
yeah it's like so
and if people land on your your
marketing material whether that is your
website or something else in your your
linkedin page and you're trying to push
all these things like you say you're not
gonna be remembered because you're
trying to clutter them with something
right now
on my twitter on my twitter i don't
mention um my youtube channel i've not
got a link to my youtube channel i do
that
some people mention it to me on facebook
today someone sent me a message saying
didn't you used to make videos about
entrepreneurs
like yeah i still do
but that isn't what i
want you to know me for right now
yeah i used to sell you learning no one
remembers me in a
cape was wearing one earlier funny
enough to shoot a new video but that's
that's going to launch in a couple weeks
so
we've we've nailed down kind of the
problem that the target client you were
getting into some tactics then but i
guess before we talk about certain
strategies and putting this into play to
actually attract the people we want to
track
how should we go about selecting i guess
the platforms is that the next step mike
to select the platforms that we actually
use to get this message in front of
target customers is that is that what's
next or
what well yeah it is next um
but it's an obvious one isn't it like
where
do your ideal client hang about
go there guess what happens if you hang
around in the places that you're out of
client hang around
then you're more likely to do business
with them
so just do some research and find out
where your ideal clients hang out
now i think some people rush to try and
have
to be omnipresent across all social
media platforms because they think they
have to
but i don't think you need to like focus
on your main platform so when i was
doing the mic when it
um stuff my main platforms were linked
in and that was when i was using
linkedin before mike when it was off my
business was linkedin
and then i also had a split with youtube
and instagram they were the three
platforms i used i didn't really use
twitter at all didn't use facebook
at all and it meant that i could really
focus on one and make that the majority
like the the main focus of how i
acquired clients or where i attracted
clients
yeah do you think about right
i mean there's no right or wrong answers
to that each business will be different
but for me three worked perfectly and i
could split my time across that across
those numbers
uh across those platforms um and the
results the results were similar as well
so weirdly the one that i spent and
engaged with on mo
engaged on most
it was the one that got us my leads from
yeah
do that to you nailed it and then what
used to happen on linkedin
i could pretty much post anything and it
would get hundreds of views thousands of
likes because you've kind of broke
you've done the craft
you've got to almost do your best
content when no one's watching no one's
looking
it's a horrible thing to say so you've
almost got to do your best work and
you're not going to get the rewards and
the appreciation you deserve for it
you've got to do that
and but this is where you'll win most
people won't do that most people quit
after doing i've been i've done this for
two weeks and i've not had a thousand
views i've not had a thousand likes or
quit then i'm not the people that don't
quit the ones that you know usually
are more successful at that platform
than anybody else
that long term also
yeah of course of course
yeah so
what i'm curious to know from you mike
is
as you've shared you've had success with
your last business you're growing a new
business now in terms of the actual
content that you put out
what are some ideas that you can share
around making sure your content is
actually going to resonate
with the
i the people you want to attract
basically
well it's again it's easy right so if
you're on the phone in your business or
you speak there's two types of people
you will either speak to existing
customers or potential customers
prospects
ask or just listen to what questions you
are being asked by those people
if you get asked the same questions
multiple times in a day or a week you
should make content on that topic
answering that question
why for two reasons two reasons number
one
you know
it is a blockage stopping somebody from
purchasing from you
so
make content for it put that out in the
places people looking to answer for
these questions to be answered and
already you've removed an objection
giving them value and they trust you
because you're not asking for a sale at
that point when if it's discoverable
content right so
that's now removed but then also why
it's good
you've now got a piece of content that
you can always refer to so if you do
follow up emails or proposals you can
embed those videos in your proposals now
where it's like we spoke about
yield or roi
here it is explained and it can be so
how does roi work and you can have
videos made on all these things that you
would normally explain so
that's a great way of scaling your sales
team
without the cost so what you're
effectively doing there is you are
creating pitch perfect sales people that
only talk to your ideal client in the
places they are hanging out and are
looking for answers to a very specific
question
right yeah
if you don't do this basically so in
learning heroes we had at the very end
we had 340 corporate clients i only got
clients from
um
linkedin at the time putting content on
linkedin
and then putting that content on youtube
um
i was the only sales person in that
business until six months before we sold
and that was because i was thinking of
them selling the business and i wanted
to replace myself in the business to
make that sale
easier to negotiate
so how i managed to do that was it was
hard graphed in the first 12 months but
then it reached a tipping point as i'd
been making content answering all the
questions i would get asked on the
phones
i started getting asked fewer and fewer
questions
because people had seen or found this
content that answers that question
before they spoke to me so eventually i
became an order taker and for a startup
business
with only one salesperson that's the
dream because essentially i had
hundreds of
pitch perfect sales people doing all the
graft for me before i ended up speaking
to people
and that's how come the model worked
quite well we could stay lean
and then we could sell the business
quite quickly two and a half years later
for eight million pounds
yeah i mean you don't have a headache of
commission brown brogues no socks
sales people are difficult by nature i
know i am one i'm one of the most i am i
would be a very difficult employee
i could imagine you would be um yeah i
could speak with similar experience i
mean
for link take linkedin for example i've
been i don't know how long i've been
posting content year and a half two
years consistently pretty much every day
and now it's got to the point when i do
get inquiries yes you still get tire
kickers every now and then
but quite a high majority of the the
people that actually message me i've
been following my stuff for ages so they
know that i know my stuff when it comes
to websites for seo and they're almost
almost already brought in so i don't
have to well well they have to because
they trust you they know you
so they know what they're getting so
this is that that's the thing that's why
it's great but also even hiring people
so if you're hiring someone for your
business
yeah they've already decided that they
know the culture the voice the tone
because they've seen all your contents
they've got a good idea what they let
themselves in for
do you see what i mean anybody applying
to work for vaynermedia
knows what's expected there because gary
puts out 500 videos a day
that's right you know i mean i'm not
saying so it's it's a good tool for
hiring and your business but it's also a
great tool for
um increasing the number of
pre-qualified leads that that ring your
business with because it is a sales team
it's the cheapest
most
um easy to manage sales team you will
ever have in your business because it's
just you multiplied
yeah yeah
so that's why it's good and here's an
example so we've um so i've got ion
productions which is a content creation
company by the way um but that is um we
had a client that's talking to ian today
to do an animated explainer video for a
crypto platform
sure to explain how it works
and
they had seen a video we made about
crypto
in 2019 so they saw that video three
weeks ago so in 2019 we made a video
this company have seen it three weeks
ago that company wasn't around
in 2019
liked it liked how it worked liked how
we spoke about crypto as now comes if we
can help them
with an explainer video to explain how
their platform works so that's the power
of something
a couple of because that is the right
content in the right place that your
ride your client is looking
yeah kind of leads me on to the next
point as well so you were saying
basically pi create content that is
common questions objections queries on
sales calls doesn't have questions yeah
common is in like frequently asked yes
yeah right not
better foreign and people get confused
with what if it doesn't get many views
it doesn't matter if it gets a hundred
views but it's such a niche question
how qualified does that person have to
be to search that question like that's
the thing that some people
yeah get wrong and that goes back to
that building the audience i was saying
at the beginning where having a hundred
thousand people
watching generic content isn't as
valuable in my mind as having
a really well-defined clear audience
getting the content that there
specifically serves the problem that you
solve and that they're looking for
there's also two other advantages to
creating that kind of content i found
one is it helps your seo a bit so if
people are actually typing that directly
into google they might see your youtube
video your blog article your resource
your podcast on it
and secondly if you've got a sales team
it saves some time so if you find you're
getting this question like from clients
every week that's what i was saying you
can literally just say i'm gonna shoot
you this dm i'm gonna shoot this email
with this link to this youtube video
this guide and it's going to guide you
through the exact steps yeah it's that's
what i mean it also is also good for
like i said proposals and follow-up
emails like here's the five things we
spoke about you're not gonna remember
all those things especially if it's a
technical sale let's just say so having
four or five videos in there that's
almost like here's that thing that we
spoke about that you might not 100
remember
when it goes back to the key decision
makers they've got less [__] to remember
and it also makes it an easier
but also it shows that you you know what
you're talking about oh weirdly that uh
i can't say i can't say but i was having
this discussion with somebody i was
having a discussion with somebody today
online
yeah um that said like google's the main
thing and i was saying but if you're not
marrying google and youtube together
you're kind of like working with one arm
type behind your back or you're shooting
yourself in the foot a tiny bit
you know
i don't feel like they believed me but
yeah it's just my experience of my own
experience and also doing this for
hundreds of businesses not just one like
one business so
cool well that's helpful we won't focus
on linkedin too much because we've got a
bunch of episodes on linkedin with
people like jared best michael daniel
disney justin welsh and loads more that
you can check out on business growth
show
but i'm curious was it just weirdly at
the end of the month
oh yeah
uh no no inner views of my own i'm
talking about oh yeah
following i'm following actually his
process at the moment
really simple four-step process to grow
your audience interesting guys
yeah yeah yeah and i mean he's he's done
very very very well in terms of his
linkedin growth and a few other channels
so perhaps you can share that in a set
but yeah i'm interested was the two
other channels you said you used for
your past business was it twin twitter
and instagram
was it twitter insta and youtube i can't
remember what you said there was three
so no so it was linkedin
yeah
youtube
and instagram
yeah yeah less less touch on youtube and
then perhaps insta for a bit because i
mean those are like i say channels that
i haven't done anything on instagram
myself and youtube we haven't shared
much on either on the show so any
kind of best practices that you've found
for those two channels that we could
share we'd have to so i only used i only
used youtube at the time to um just as
somewhere to keep my video content just
another place to hold my video content
and then once i learned that you know
people use youtube it's the second most
searched website in the world for
questions and problems about business
so why wouldn't you be on there which is
that's kind of the argument i was having
earlier today
um
so then once you understand that and
it's similar to google you start doing
seo and the tags on your videos and you
really
are very specific in the questions and
the content um that you're answering
then that's why they should be on there
so um there is there is no sort of
secret to it you just make content for
your tribe or your audience or your
ideal client and they will naturally
find that i mean
i would say just posting and putting
those videos on there is probably more
important at this stage than trying to
work out
a hack to get an extra 0.3 engagement on
your thumbnails you know that's you
probably trying to run before you can
walk so yeah no there is no secret just
make content and put on youtube because
you're gonna be linking people to that
anyway
so that's how you grow that audience
yeah and then hopefully
one video will get picked up by the
algorithm and it will show you to more
people that are interested in that
product that's
kind of what happened with one of my
videos
which was weird because it didn't get
many views in the first four months
it is strange how that can happen i've
had that on a few well literally they've
been
hardly any views to start with then
maybe a year down the line they've just
suddenly picked up out of nowhere i've
got a couple of just really really old
episodes on the podcast and they've just
suddenly shut up and it's like why the
hell and that's but that's the key and
that's kind of what i'm trying to say
we're posting online every day say just
on linkedin every day writing a post
it's empathy thursday it's you know show
some vulnerability tuesday where you're
following the same formula that's cool
for building a brand getting views but
um
it's not searchable nobody's searching
for your ideal client isn't searching
for
how did you cope when your cat got run
over in 1997. no one's searching for
that [__] actual i'm from a purely
business perspective
however
it you want the content on in other
places where your ideal client are
asking so i think i call that disposable
content it's not bad that's not in a
negative way by the way it's cool for
visibility building a brand and
getting massive eyes on your
stuff
however you need to use this sort of
evergreen lead generating
sales content
effectively if you want to be successful
and that's on any platform because you
can repurpose that on all platforms but
that's the content that
in the hour of need when your ideal
client has got that problem that you
solve that's what they are looking for
so make it
make it once get paid on it many many
times
it's a better investment
of your time if you've only got three
hours to make content every month i
would suggest you made one or two videos
that you know are still going to be
generating your business in one year's
time two years time three years now
that is my
uh that is my tip
i haven't got a clue
what that is or what it should look like
or what it should be called
speak to i am productions there's a plug
for my own business there because again
that's
it works
what about inside instagram
common mistakes people make on that
platform is they think if they are in
marketing they will then hashtag
marketing on their content right it's
the most stupid thing ever you're now
competing with people with huge
audiences your content won't get seen if
people are following that hashtag or
searching hashtag because it's used so
many times so i i
did okay on instagram
got to about 10 000 followers it got
hacked and deleted so i've never
bothered starting again but i got 10 000
followers in
less than a year
what i realized and understood about
hashtags and the strategy was hashtags
are great if it's specifically for you
now you're thinking oh but nobody
searches for that no but once you start
building your community your community
will then start using your hashtag so
it's it is supposed to be
like
niche it is supposed to be more but if
you think of it as a sort of i used to
think of instagram as the football
league
you are starting in the conference so
what you want to do is you want to look
at what other accounts
will say less than 500 followers look in
your niche
what hashtags they're using
and you want to almost go for niche
versions of those hashtags
once you start winning the battle in
your league you can start going up the
leagues and then once you've got
5 000 followers so you go from 500 to 5
000 i would say you've gone up a league
you can start now competing for slightly
bigger
more competitive hashtags
and start winning that battle get your
audience up to ten thousand then you can
start going after so it's you you win
instagram in my opinion in increments
what people
have failed to realize is that is the
process and it's a long-term game
but
they fail to realize they think well
well i know
um there's two points there's 27 million
posts on marketing so i'm just going to
use marketing as my hashtag because it's
a popular hashtag yet no it's a popular
hashtag used by
other people
it means that the chance of your content
see being seen through that hashtag
you're not going to be on the top nine
squares for that hashtag because they
favor the bigger accounts with millions
of followers so you're kind of wasting
hashtags in my opinion actually got
something coming about hashtag strategy
in 2022 and how to use it to your
advantage um that's coming in two weeks
time on views so yeah
uh which is
which will obviously benefit some of the
people that are trying to grow an
audience on on those platforms and that
hashtag strategy i would say on
instagram is something i think it's the
biggest misconception ever people just
think
bang
content marketing marketing strategy
marketing strategy uk marketing uk they
just think
but it's it's a wrong way of doing it
yeah no i've never really used instagram
that much myself so it was quite curious
to see kind of what you recommended
what's worked for you um yeah
it's all right
you know tick tock something that i've
got a brand new account for for uh views
my own but that's
i i want to test stuff what i find with
a lot of
sort of business communities or
um
groups on how to grow your audience on
say if it's on linkedin or if it's on
the the problem is a lot of these people
are just talking at
the community saying just do this
but i want to actually try these things
so if somebody does something that i've
never heard of and says it works
i want to try it myself and the reason
why it's called views my own are i will
try the thing for a month two months
three months and see what i say
reveal the results i got and then get
experts in to actually give their
genuine views on
that process why it works why it didn't
work what's their opinion on it is there
other things that we need to do and i
think that's kind of a big usp for
what we're doing you know a lot of
people
don't do that
you know so
the channels we've talked about mike
of uh
they're by youtube
they're pretty much
you could argue is a bit social but
they're pretty much all social platforms
just to tear a hole in the strategy
they're all effectively rented land
in the sense that
the companies that control the social
platforms could at any time
flip them from being free to use yeah
that's the massive thing i know that
kills the algae
so
is
spending all your time on whether it's
two three one social platforms a risk in
the sense that everything could be lost
yeah of course of course it is that's
why your ultimate goal is to try is to
drive them to your own mailing list or
your own website that's the ultimate
goal of anything
yeah you want your audience to actually
instead of thinking i want to find mike
win it stuff so i'm going to go on
linkedin to find it they go on to
mikewind.com that's not real website by
the way but
they'll go up and that's where i find
your stuff that's your ultimate goal so
that's the smart play now a lot of
people don't do that and that's how come
you see a lot as soon as facebook decide
they're going to change the rules or
they pull your account like look at me i
lost a 90 000 linkedin account
um
that would put a lot of people's
businesses under
imagine if your business was
growing and old it was based i don't say
linkedin training is a perfect example
and all of your audience is on linkedin
if they pulled your account you're
[__] yeah
so the smart move is number one have
multiple platforms so you've got a big
audience so if you do lose a chunk it's
not all of them luckily i had other than
almost 90 000 accounts on different
platforms
so
there will be a lot of crossover on
those 90s as well so i'm not going to go
oh that's 200 000 people or whatever it
might be probably 130 000 people some
duplicates but if you
you know
put your eggs in a few different baskets
that kind of protects you to a certain
degree but your ultimate goal is to have
your own platform
yeah
yeah whether it is like you say an email
list or your website or something you
literally own or control that you can
guide people to so like you say if one
of the social channels takes a hit
exactly you know you've got other
channels that you own control are your
own assets yeah so then
there's that if it's you on your own but
if you're in a business you also another
way of splitting that risk would be
having
two or three or four or five depending
on how big you are
individuals building their own tribe in
your niche that work in your
organization so say if
jack bainbridge accounts gets pulled for
iron productions then we've got i
haven't seen the place from
um
he's over there actually uh he's busy
too busy to post now but yeah okay yeah
so uh so jack's like doesn't do banners
anymore he does animations and the
animations he's doing unreal um so
yeah it's a higher value product more
labor intensive but but also yeah but so
the point is
that's another way of sort of nullifying
that risk or spreading that risk is
having multiple people in your business
that are well known and also built up an
audience
yeah yeah but you are right 100 get
people onto your own platform
so and especially with the way that a
lot of these platforms are going now the
fact that you can get banned
from certain platforms for saying
something innocuous like say elf porn or
something like that and that's the
reason they'll pull your account with 90
000 followers on number one it's
ridiculous but number two the fact that
that exists now
and there is a sort of anonymously
report people and a lot of it is because
people are a bit
i don't like a different opinion so i'm
going to report that whether it's right
like that there's a huge difference with
that it's a dangerous dangerous thing to
try and grow your audience just on one
platform so yeah you want people to
follow you
separately so i've started that myself
let's um let's go into the next topic i
guess which is so we've shared kind of
how you can think about who your target
audience is what the problem is you
solve how you can create content to
appeal to them
how can we then
this is probably going to link in nicely
with kind of using multiple platforms
and not relying necessarily on rented
social channels how can we then leverage
our audience to get some cash out of
them to generate some revenue for our
business
uh well you give them value on you know
give them value
sort of tell them what they need to do
to sort of solve the pain point that you
fix
i find what works is
give them enough information and help
so they can try and do it themselves but
inevitably people
would rather outsource this stuff and
would rather
pay someone to do it because that's what
they are an expert in or that's what
so
that's how you do it basically just
you know it was
i've quoted him once
i quote him again gary vee jab jab jab
right hook isn't it it's just that
good value you give value give value
help people help people help people
then
inevitably when it does come to will you
want to use us to this or will you buy
this product
people feel like they've already had the
money's worth from you anyway
so
it's quite easy really or make it a
no-brainer offer in learning heroes it
was
you know
we had a better offering than everybody
else and offered at a price that nobody
could even get close to
because we are we offered a new a
different way of billing and um
invoicing our clients cancelled any time
no long contract so what we were doing
at that time wasn't really
possible so
it's just that
yeah treat people how you would want to
be treated
give them a great level of service
give them loads of value so it becomes a
no-brainer decision
you know why did why do people why do
people travel
hundreds of miles to use john stone
and um gorilla tires or stone tires
because
he gives a great service at a great
price he you know
he puts out valuable content
which i mean like he's the the person
you go so if you want ties in the
northwest i know people that travel up
from leicester
and um places like leeds and stuff just
to get there there's loads of places
that are cheaper but because
john has invested in content puts out
good content clearly passionate about
what he does gives loads of value
unrivaled customer service
um
that's why that's why they use him
i don't know if he's saying this but
he's a good bloke good bloke and he's
nailed it and and
how many tire-changing companies are
there in the uk but he's the only person
i think of when it comes to tires and
that's ahead of all the big corporates
yeah have to check him out so what do
you think's a better play in terms of
if you're creating content
do you do like you said the garyvee jab
jab jab right hook where you might do i
don't know five or six
posts that you put out or whatever the
platform is or videos or pieces of
content and then you do an ask like you
say look we've got this offer on xyz or
we're doing this or discuss book a
discovery called books consultation call
or
do you then
reach out to people that are potential
clients that have shown an interest or
thirdly do you perhaps post a link to
encourage people to sign up to your
newsletter or download your ebook or
all three
yeah so the answer is all three this is
one thing that frustrates me sometimes
with business
people
where they want the one definite answer
you know is it social selling or is it
getting on the phone and outbound
it's both it's both me you know do you
craft a gym body through good nutrition
or working out it's both like you've got
to do both
but you've got to be good at both and
you've got to do both at the right time
so
both are important in those examples
i've given all three
are
used and are useful tactics at different
points with different types of people at
different stages in their buying
process so
the answer to that is yes all of them is
what you do
yeah
yeah yeah and most people won't and i
see sometimes
the argument for well nobody in my
industry does that
so that's probably your easiest win then
if you start doing something you know i
think would be great if people started
doing now in their marketing
like lumpy mail like start using lumpy
mail i'm doing all that for school yeah
yeah
junk mail was absolutely rinsed no one
was asked back no one gets that anymore
really no one gets lumpy mail something
valuable or is
sort of eye-catching or
that type of thing now guerrilla
marketing
that's another tactic i've just done a a
video on the 10-pound gorilla marketing
stunt that i did that generated 100 000
pounds worth of business
um
that stuff your competitors aren't doing
but everybody's doing digital marketing
everyone's sponsoring events everyone's
doing all this [__]
but it becomes noisy and you don't stand
out so you want to win especially if
you're an sme
startup small business entrepreneur
you want to win
the small battles and win enough of them
and you'll get huge results the problem
i think with a lot of people is
they want to go and win wars with people
that are far
far above them and further along the
process and you're on you're on hide
into nothing
yeah yeah i guess but they just see the
the big boys in the industry and perhaps
think they're they're doing this on
their marketing or they're on these
channels they're putting on this kind of
content let's go you should be aware of
that you should be aware of that but
it's it's on a on the ground level is
when you win is when you win those
battles you know that's how you know
guerrilla wars are fought think of that
with your marketing and how you position
your
um business and that's what most people
like by the way most people like that
look at brewdog perfect example
the support for brewdog people were
buying shares in that invest in that
company at the beginning when they were
with the plucky startup that was going
to take on the big breweries now they
are the big brewery and look at that
look at the hassle they get
yes
in a strange way it's harder work but
it's more satisfying and easier
i think
when you're small you can quickly do
things you can quickly try things you've
not got multiple decision makers to go
through to make marketing decisions try
new products test a few things you're in
such a unique and lucky position
by almost not having unlimited budget
and unlimited resources
you kind of do things better and cheaper
and has a bigger impact
i believe
but it is just my view and my opinion i
am welcome to other people's opinions
and i will test them
i think that's probably the best way to
be especially if you're a startup like i
mean you can you can mess around with
certain channels whether it's linkedin
twitter insta
youtube you can put out pieces of
content for a while you can see what
performs you can test different things
whether it's outbound messaging
direct mail whatever it is see what
works and you don't have to get approval
from corporate so that's an interesting
standpoint i mean
you can move fast like you're saying and
try that out cool um look mike i think
we've covered some good ground we've
covered the a to z really of how to grow
an audience online how to attract the
the right kind of people you want to do
business with put out content that
they're gonna enjoy that are gonna be
searching for and then turn that into
cash in the bank any final points to
wrap up today sir
uh
not really if you think anything else
does resonate with you and you'd like
help on it with your business i've got a
group where we do those three things
we teach you
how to identify your ideal client
and grow your audience of your ideal
client how to market those people better
and then how to close those sales and
leads that you're generating
and like i said this is from experience
of having
grown scaled and sold a business myself
having done organic marketing and then
trying stuff with paid ads and stuff
like that so
come and join views on my own dot social
it is free to subscribe if you just want
the monthly content if you want the
weekly content you do have to pay 12
pound 50 you can write it off
so you don't have to give that money to
the tax man give it me instead
there you go
you don't make more than 12 pounds worth
12 pound 50 is worth of extra business
from that
um you're an idiot
it's on you
there you go we'll put those links over
on the site business growth dot
marketing and with that mike thanks very
much always really enjoyed the chat
yeah and just say to anybody that's
watching this i'm not a link
say that again mike it just broke off
so mike underscore win it on twitter if
you want to follow that or follow views
are my own on linkedin that is the
business page
nice one sir and as always if you
enjoyed the show a quick rating on apple
podcast is much appreciated or if you're
on youtube a quick subscribe we share
actual marketing tips each and every
week to help you grow your business and
your revenue and with that we should
catch you on the next one cheers